doc/HOW_TO_BUILD.md, before:

How to build the documentation
==============================

The documentation is written using *quickbook*. This is a technology made for boost,
building on *boostbook*... which in turn is based on *docbook*. It can generate
html, pdfs, and probably some more stuff... Here we are using it for html.

1. Install b2 (bjam) if you have not already.  
2. Install [boostbook](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_61_0/doc/html/boostbook/getting/started.html)  
3. Install [quickbook](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_61_0/doc/html/quickbook/install.html)  
4. Run b2 from this directory  

All of these may be done by downloading a recent copy of boost, and building things in the tools directory thereof.  

To assist you: My `user-config.jam` looks like this right now:

``
using gcc : : g++ ;
using boostbook
  : /home/chris/boostbook/docbook-xsl-1.75.2
  : /home/chris/boostbook/docbook-dtd-4.2
  ;
using xsltproc : /usr/bin/xsltproc ;
using doxygen : /usr/bin/doxygen ;
using fop : /home/chris/boostbook/fop-0.94/fop : : /usr/bin/java ;
using quickbook
  : /home/chris/bin/quickbook
  ;
``

Good luck!

Commit message:

add some more install notes and update readme

doc/HOW_TO_BUILD.md, after:

How to build the documentation
==============================

The documentation is written using *quickbook*. This is a technology made for boost,
building on *boostbook*... which in turn is based on *docbook*. It can generate
html, pdfs, and probably some more stuff... Here we are using it for html.

1. Install b2 (bjam) if you have not already.  
2. Install [boostbook](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_61_0/doc/html/boostbook/getting/started.html)  
3. Install [quickbook](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_61_0/doc/html/quickbook/install.html)  
4. Run b2 from this directory  

All of these may be done by downloading a recent copy of boost, and building things in the tools directory thereof.  

To assist you: My `user-config.jam` looks like this right now:

``
using gcc : : g++ ;
using boostbook
  : /home/chris/boostbook/docbook-xsl-1.75.2
  : /home/chris/boostbook/docbook-dtd-4.2
  ;
using xsltproc : /usr/bin/xsltproc ;
using doxygen : /usr/bin/doxygen ;
using fop : /home/chris/boostbook/fop-0.94/fop : : /usr/bin/java ;
using quickbook
  : /home/chris/bin/quickbook
  ;
``

Once you have built the html, you need to copy some images and css from the
boost distribution in order to actually see it rendered nicely in your browser.
Basically you need the things in `boost/doc/src`, see `fetch_boost_images_and_css.sh`.

Good luck!
